# puz
Estimated Depth to Ground Water in the Portland, Oregon Area


The map provides access to estimates of depth-to-water and water-table elevation for the Portland, Oregon, metropolitan area, along with estimates of their relative uncertainty that were developed by Snyder (2009). The method of analysis used to determine the water-table configuration relied on water-level data from shallow wells and surface-water features that are representative of the water table. The water-table configuration maps generally are representative of the average conditions in the study area; however, the actual position of the water table may differ from the estimated position at specific locations, and short-term, seasonal, and long-term variations in the differences can be expected (see Disclaimer). The values reported here represent the average water-table position for a 250-foot-square area (as represented by the interpolation grid). Site-specific estimates of the water-table position in areas of steep land-surface relief, steep water-table gradients, abrupt local change in hydrogeologic properties, or strong stresses to the groundwater system such as focused recharge or pumping, may result in water-table positions that deviate from the average.

Each estimate of the water-table position has an associated uncertainty. The relative uncertainty map provides a measure of the relative uncertainty associated with the estimates of the water-table position at any location. The values of the relative uncertainty range from 0 to 1, where 0 represents a low relative uncertainty and 1 represents a high relative uncertainty. These values provide a method to compare and evaluate the reliability associated with the values of the water-table position. The relative uncertainty map addresses some but not all possible errors associated with the analysis of the water-table configuration and does not depict all sources of uncertainty. In particular, perched groundwater zones may be present in some areas resulting in the actual depth to water being less than estimated using the results of this study.

Additional information on the sources and description of data, study methods, estimates and information on seasonal water-table fluctuations, and contour maps of the depth to water, water-table elevation, and relative uncertainty, for the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area can be found in the associated report, "Estimated Depth to Ground Water and Configuration of the Water Table in the Portland, Oregon Area."

Elevation is referenced to sea level using the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88).
